Class Reflections Week 1 
Elli Dastrup 

What is a neighborhood? How should neighborhoods be defined? Why might neighborhoods be important units of analysis for city planners and urbanists?
What characteristics make a neighborhood great?

When we were asked in class, “What is a neighborhood?” I struggled for a few minutes to decide on one definition. I decided to write down a few notes about my neighborhood. Most of my notes included something about shared experiences and daily interactions. I realized that although I live in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago, my personal neighborhood is much smaller than the Hyde Park boundaries. In my opinion, my neighborhood is the few blocks around my house in which I can go to 5 different grocery stores, dozens of restaurants, several parks, 4 schools, and several churches. Not only do these few blocks offer an array of destinations, they also offer daily human interactions with the same people. Everyday when I take my dog to the park I pass by the same houses, and I see the same people in the parks. I may see a few new faces, but the majority of the faces are familiar. This is what makes my neighborhood mine. It may still technically be the Hyde Park neighborhood 7 blocks south of me, but that area is not within my day-to-day living radius. 

On the other hand, when I lived in Utah I lived in a suburban neighborhood. The closest grocery store to my house was separated from me by an entire university campus and a freeway, not to mention the sea of a parking lot to enter the establishment. If you hadn’t already guessed, it is a walmart. We drove to the store because the walk was at least 45 minutes. Somehow with the traffic it almost felt better to walk though. I’m getting off topic, but you understand the situation. My point is that in Utah my neighborhood was much different. My neighborhood was farther reaching because my day-to-day life forced me to travel greater distances. Some might think this is amazing because I get to interact with greater volumes of people. It had quite the opposite effect though. Because my neighborhood was so spread out in Utah, I had a hard time finding any daily interactions with the people in my neighborhood. There was no sense of community because there was no community to be had in the first place. We all lived in our individual homes and drove 15 minutes to the overcrowded walmart and then pulled back into our garages without ever seeing a neighbor. 

It may seem that I am simply loving on Hyde Park and hating on Utah, but the point of my story is to show that a neighborhood is very difficult to define. To me though in this moment in time in Hyde Park my neighborhood is the space in which I can live my day-to-day life and in which I have shared experiences or interactions with those living in the same area.

Neighborhoods are really great units of analysis for urban planners because they are one of the most basic units, meaning they are the unit most experienced on a daily basis by those within them. This means that planners can make some of the most impactful changes in these units of analysis because they are the most utilized by the people. I don’t think there is one way that a neighborhood should or shouldn’t be defined. That definition is required to be dynamic and flexible to the time, place, and context it is in. Without this flexibility, planners would most certainly fail many of the communities they are supposed to help.
The characteristics that make a neighborhood great, in my opinion, are things like proximity to resources, availability of goods and education, networks of open space, networks of transportation for all modes, etc. The list could go on, but I will summarize the characteristics to those that benefit the social interactions of those living in a neighborhood. 
